ClimateChangeandtheIrish
FinancialSystem
PhilipR.Lane
Vol. 2019,No. 1
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page1
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancial
System
PhilipR.Lane,GovernoroftheCentralBankofIreland
MonsignorPádraigdeBrúnMemorialLecture,NUIGalway5February2019
InthisEconomicLetter,Idescribethechallengesposedbyclimatechange
fortheIrishﬁnancialsystem. Anincreaseinthefrequencyofsevereweather
eventshasimplicationsformacroeconomicoutcomes,assetprices,house
prices,creditrisksandthecostandcoverageofinsurancecontracts. Inad-
dition,thenecessarytransitiontoalow-carboneconomy(supportedbya
phasedscheduleofincreasingcarbontaxes)requiresconsiderableinvest-
mentbyhouseholds,ﬁrmsandthegovernment. Ifthepaceoftransitionis
tooslow,asharperadjustmentwillbeultimatelyrequired,posingmacroe-
conomicandﬁnancialstabilityrisks. Asthemacroprudentialauthority,the
CentralBankwillneedtoensurethattheseﬁnancialstabilityrisksarecon-
tainedbyimprovingtheclimateresilienceoftheﬁnancialsystem. Asthe
prudentialandconductregulator,theCentralBankalsohasaleadrolein
ensuringthatﬁnancialﬁrmsincorporateclimatechangeintostrategicand
ﬁnancialplans,whileensuringthatconsumershavesufﬁcientinformationto
navigatetheﬁnancialrisksposedbyclimatechange.
Introduction
Ourmissionstatementreads: “TheCentralBankofIrelandservesthepublicinterestby
safeguardingmonetaryandﬁnancialstabilityandbyworkingtoensurethattheﬁnancial
systemoperatesinthebestinterestsofconsumersandthewidereconomy.” Ifweareto
fulﬁllthismission,itisastrategicpriorityforustoaddressthechallengesposedbyclimate
changefortheﬁnancialsystem.
Thisholdstrueforseveralreasons. First,climatechangewillbeanimportantinﬂuenceon
macroeconomicoutcomesinthecomingdecades: bothdirectlythroughweathershocks
andtheshifttowardslow-carbontechnologies,andindirectlythroughitsimpactonthe
evolvingexpectationsofhouseholdsandﬁrmsaboutthefuturetrajectoryoftheeconomy.i
Second,althoughthisisnotthebasecase,Iwillarguelaterinthislecturethatﬁnancialsta-
bilityisthreatenedifweignorethesystemicrisksassociatedwithclimatechange. Third,
consumersareﬁnanciallyexposedtoclimatechangethroughavarietyofchannels. Fourth,
giventheenvironmentalrisksandstructuralchangesinthewidereconomyassociatedwith
thetransitiontoalow-carboneconomy,ourregulatorypoliciesandsupervisorypractices
mustaddresstheﬁnancingoftherelatedshiftsinthestructureoftheeconomyandthein-
vestmentsrequiredtoadapttoclimatechange.
Page1
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page2
Theseissuescutacrossallpartsoftheﬁnancialsystem. Inmanycountries,differentinstitu-
tionsareresponsiblefortheregulationandsupervisionofindividualﬁnancialsectors,with
furtherdivisionsbetweenprudentialandconductregulatoryauthorities. Furthermore,the
microprudentialsupervisionofindividualﬁrmsisoftenseparatedfromthemacropruden-
tialpolicyauthoritythatistaskedwiththedesignofsystemicpoliciestosafeguardﬁnancial
stability.
Incontrast,theCentralBankofIrelandhasawidemandate. Inadditiontoourcentralbank-
ingfunctions,wearetheprudentialandconductregulatorforbanks,insurancecompanies,
investmentﬁrms,fundsandwealsoregulatetheoperationofﬁnancialmarketsandtheis-
suanceofsecurities. Moreover,wearealsothenationalmacroprudentialauthority,thena-
tionalresolutionauthorityandoperatethedepositguaranteescheme. Assuch,wearewell
placedtotakeasystem-wideandholisticperspectiveontheimplicationsofclimatechange
fortheﬁnancialsystem. AspartoftheEuropeanSystemofFinancialSupervision,wework
inpartnershipwiththeEuropean-levelsupervisoryauthoritiesandtheothernationalreg-
ulatorsacrosstheEU.Inturn,atagloballevel,thecommonchallengesposedbyclimate
changealsomeanthatmuchistakingplaceatagloballevelintermsofcoordinatingthere-
sponseofregulatoryauthoritiestothesechallenges.
Althoughtheprimaryfocusofthislectureisonthemacro-ﬁnancialimplicationsofclimate
change,itisusefultostartwithabriefoverviewofthewidercontext. Inresponsetothe
2015ParisAgreementoftheUnitedNationsFrameworkConventiononClimateChange
(UNFCCC),theEuropeanUnionhascommittedtoa40percentreductioninemissionsby
2030(comparedto1990levels)andtheattainmentofcarbonneutralityby2050.ii Meeting
thesetargetsiscriticalaspartoftheworldwideefforttolimittheextentofglobalwarming,
withthereportsoftheIntergovernmentalPanelonClimateChange(IPCC)layingoutthe
consequencesofasustainedincreaseinglobaltemperatures. BasedonMetEireanndata,
theglobalshiftintemperaturesisalsoevidentinIreland: theaveragetemperatureduring
1991-2016wassubstantiallyabovethe1960-1990averagetemperature.
Atthedomesticlevel,Desmond(2018)providesanassessmentofthecurrentstateofna-
tionalpreparedness: thisstudyﬁndsthatmuchoftheenablingpolicyframeworkhasbeen
putinplacebutaconsiderablesystem-wideeffortisrequiredtoimplementthemanychanges
neededtobuildalow-carbon,climate-resilientIreland. Assignalledinthe2018annualre-
portoftheClimateChangeAdvisoryCouncil(CCAC),sustainedactionisrequiredifIreland
istomeetitsnationaltransitionobjectiveandcomplywithinternationaltargets,especially
giventhecurrenttrajectoryofrisinggreenhousegasemissions.
Aspartofacomprehensivepolicypackage,carbontaxeswillhaveacentralroleinguiding
theenergytransitionbyprovidingtheeconomicincentivetoswitchfromhigh-carbonto
low-orzero-carbontechnologiesandproducts. InIreland,theCCAChasrecommended
aphasedincreaseinthecarbontaxfromthecurrent e20pertonneto e80pertonneby
2030.iii Intermsofbenchmarking,itisworthnotingthatsomecountriesalreadyhavecar-
bontaxesattheupperendoreveninexcessofthisrange,withtheSwedishcarbontaxcur-
rentlyat$139(e112),Switzerlandat$101(e81),Finlandat$77(e62),Norwayat$64
Page2
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page3
(e52)andFranceat$55(e44)(WorldBank2018).iv
Theeconomy-wideandsocietalchallengesposedbyclimatechangemeanthatitisinevitable
thattheﬁnancialsystemhasacentralroleinmanagingclimaterisksandﬁnancingthecar-
bontransition. Accordingly,thestrategicplansofﬁnancialﬁrmswillhavetoaddresscli-
matechange. Equally,astheguardianofﬁnancialstabilityandtheﬁnancialregulators,cen-
tralbankshavealeadershiproleinensuringthatclimatechangeisastrategicpriorityfor
theﬁnancialsystemasawhole. Accordingly,havingspentthelastdecaderepairingtheﬁ-
nancialsystemaftertheinternationalbankingcrisis,theglobalcentralbankingcommunity
isincreasinglyturningitsattentiontothelonger-termchallengeofimprovingtheclimate
resilienceoftheﬁnancialsystemandthewidereconomy.
AMacro-FinancialPerspectiveonClimateChange
Inassessingthemacroeconomicandﬁnancialimpactofclimatechange,adualapproach
isrequired. Alongonedimension,climatechangeisassociatedwithphenomenasuchasa
greaterfrequencyofmoresevereweathereventsandtrendfactorssuchastheimplica-
tionsofglobalwarmingforthephysicalenvironmentfacingproducersindifferentregions
andsectors. Theincreasingfrequencyofadverseweathereventsisalreadyevident. Forin-
stance,asnotedbyCarney(2018),thevalue(in2015prices)ofregisteredweather-related
lossevents(bothinsuredanduninsured)hastripledfromaround$50billionannuallyinthe
1980sto$150billionannuallyoverthepastdecade.
Alonganotherdimension,thepolicyresponsetoclimatechangeistoinduceacarbontran-
sitionintheworldeconomy: overtime,ascheduleofincrementalincreasesincarbontaxes
(togetherwithotherregulatorymeasures)willinduceanall-economyinvestmenteffort
toreducecarbondependenceandadoptalternativetechnologies. AsnotedbyVilleroyde
Galhau(2018),theIPCCestimateisthattheworldneedstospend$900billionannuallyun-
til2050onenergy-relatedmitigationinvestmentsifglobalwarmingistobelimitedto1.5
degrees. Whilesubstantialinabsoluteterms,thisrepresentslessthanonepercentof2017
worldGDP.AtaEuropeanlevel,itisestimatedthattherequiredadditionalannualinvest-
mentover2021-2030is e180billion(EuropeanCommission2016,2018). Whilethereis
animportantroleforpublicinvestment,thebulkoftheadjustmentwillfallontheprivate
sector.
Giventhevariationintheimpactofweathereventsandthecarbontransition,itisuseful
totakeasector-by-sectorapproachinthinkingabouttheﬁnancialimplicationsofclimate
risksandthecarbontransition. Atthesametime,acomprehensiveanalysisalsoneedsto
takeintoaccounttheinterdependenciesacrosssectorsandtheconﬁgurationofindirect
exposuresthroughsuchinter-linkages. Inwhatfollows,wefocusonsector-speciﬁccon-
siderations,whilerecognisingtheimportanceofdevelopingfully-integratedassessment
models.
Inthinkingabouttherelevanttimehorizonsforthematerialisationofclimaterisksandthe
executionofthecarbontransition,themulti-stagetargetsforprogressinemissionsreduc-
Page3
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page4
tionby2030and2050provideusefulnear-termandmedium-termbenchmarks. Atthe
sametime,horizonuncertaintyremainsacentralcomponentofthewidermacro-ﬁnancial
uncertaintyassociatedwithclimatechange.
Onebasicsplitisbetweenenergyproducersandenergyconsumers.v Inrecentyears,the
energyproductionsectorhasalreadymovedsomedistancealongthetransitionpathbyin-
creasingtheshareofrenewablesinenergyproductionandannouncingthe2025closureof
theonlycoal-usingelectricityplant(Moneypoint),evenifthespeedofadjustmentinrela-
tiontothefutureofpeatasaninputhasnotbeenﬁnallysettled(ClimateChangeCouncil
2018). Clearly,muchremainstobedoneintermsofthetransformationoftheenergypro-
ductionsector. Still,onacomparativebasis,theadjustmentchallengefacingIrelandinrela-
tiontoenergyproductionislessthaninsomeothercountries,giventhelowerdependence
oncoalandoilasinputs. Inaddition,energysupplierswillhavetoinvestinnewinfrastruc-
turalrollouts,includingsupportfortheswitchtoelectriccars.
Turningtothehouseholdsector,thereareseveralchallengesoverthecomingyears.vi First,
householdswillhavetodevoteresourcestoretroﬁttinghomesinordertoreduceenergy
consumption. Whilepartofthecostmaybemetbypublicsubsidies,thebulkofthisexpen-
diturewillhavetobemetbyindividualfamilies. Giventhemulti-yearpayofftosuchhouse-
holdcapitalexpenditures,muchofthisinvestmentwillneedtobeﬁnancedthroughhome
renovationloans.
Second,householdsfacetheprospectofmoreexpensiveand/ormorecurtailedinsurance
policiestotheextentthatthereisanincreasedfrequencyofsevereweatherevents. Even
allowingforsomemitigationthroughpublicinvestmentinimprovinginfrastructuralre-
silience,moreexpensivepremiaorexposuretonon-insurablerisksmeanthathomeowners
willhavetobuilduprainy-dayfundstocoverorabsorbtheseriskevents. Moreover,house
pricesarelikelytobemorevolatile,inresponsetorevisionsinassessmentsofclimate-
relatedpropertyexposures.
Third,householdspendingontransportationwillbetransformed. Inpart,thebalancebe-
tweenprivatecarsandothertypesoftransportwillshift. Inpart,theadjustmentwilltake
theformofashiftfromoil-fuelledtoelectric-poweredcars.vii Ifthisshifttakestheformof
asteadyannualswitchingrate,thedepreciationrateoftheexistingstockofoil-fuelledcars
willgraduallyincrease,withoutanysevereshocktothewealthofIrishhouseholdsordete-
riorationinthecreditriskembeddedintheprovisionofcarﬁnancingpackages.
Incontrast,iftheswitchingrateistooslow,afuturecliffedgeriskwillexist,inwhichhouse-
holdsscrambletoselloil-fuelledcars,withacollectivelossofvalueaffectingownersand
creditproviders. Forcompleteness,itisalsopossibletoenvisageanexcessively-rapidswitch-
ingratethatwouldalsogenerateavaluationshock. However,thefeasibilityofasudden
large-scalelurchtowardselectriccarsislimitedbycapacitylimitsamongcarproducersto
meetashort-termsurgeindemandandbythelowlikelihoodofasharpnear-termjumpin
thecarbontaxrate.
Fourth,householdsholdingdirectinvestmentportfoliosorindirectportfolios(throughde-
Page4
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page5
ﬁnedcontributionpensionplans)areexposedtocarbon-relatedshockstoﬁnancialasset
values. Therearetwocategoriesofmarketrisks. First,currentmarketassessmentsofthe
valueofcarbon-relatedassets(forexample,theassetsofoil-producingﬁrms)mayturnout
tobeincorrect,ifthespeedornatureofthecarbontransitionturnsouttobemorerapidor
moredisruptivethancurrentprojections. Second,aswillbediscussedfurtherinthenext
section,thecarbontransitionmaybeassociatedwithmacroeconomicdisruption(inducing
ageneralﬁnancialmarketcorrection),especiallyifexcessivegradualismultimatelyrequires
asharpertransitionadjustmentinthefuture.
Turningtothecorporatesector,ﬁrmswillalsohavetodevoteresourcestoretroﬁttingof-
ﬁces,factoriesandretailoutlets. Inaddition,thecommercialinsurancemarketfacesthe
samesetofissuesasthehomeinsurancemarket. Firmsthatofferdeﬁned-beneﬁtpen-
sionplanswillhavetoaddressclimate-relatedmarketrisks. Furthermore,thecorporate
sectorfacesitsowntransportationchallengesintermsofthetransportationofgoodsand
business-relatedtravel.
Intermsofproductionprocesses,ﬁrmswillalsohavetoreducerelianceoncarbon-intensive
technologies. Thistechnologicalchallengewillinvolveacombinationofinnovation(ﬁnding
novelsolutions)andimitation(implementingbestpracticesfromaroundtheworld). Inpart,
thistransitionwilltakeplacewithinexistingﬁrmsandindustries;inpart,thistransitionwill
beachievedbynewﬁrmsandnewindustriesthatareunburdenedbylegacyassetsand
technologies. Thebalancebetweenwithin-ﬁrmadjustmentversustheentryofnewﬁrms
willbeacriticalfactorindeterminingthebalancebetweendebtandequityinﬁnancingthe
transition,sincestartupsnaturallyrequiremoreequityﬁnancethanincumbentﬁrms.
Theconstructionsectorfacesparticularchallenges. Incommonwithotherindustries,it
willhavetoadaptintermsofswitchingtowardsmoreenvironmentallyfriendlymaterials
andproductiontechniques. However,theeconomy-widerequirementtoretroﬁtexisting
structuresandensurethatnewbuildsmeethighenergystandardsconstitutesastructural
shiftintheroleoftheconstructionsectorintheeconomy. Inturn,thiscallsforasupport-
iveinstitutionalenvironmenttoensurethatthereissufﬁcientavailabilityofconstruction
workerswiththerequiredskills,togetherwiththeconstellationofpoliciesthatwillfacili-
tatescaleefﬁcienciesintherolloutofthisworkprogramme.
Similarly,theagriculturalsectorfacesbothtransitionchallengesandopportunities. Inad-
ditiontograpplingwiththecurtailmentofgreenhousegasemissions,farmerswillhaveto
respondtopossibleenvironmentally-relatedshiftsinconsumerpreferences. Atthesame
time,biomassfuelsandafforestationarelikelytopresentnewopportunitiesforfarmers.
Thegovernmentfacesarangeofchallengesinrelationtothepublicﬁnancesandtheop-
erationofthepublicsector. Thepublicinvestmentprogrammewillhavetodevotesufﬁ-
cientresourcestotheretroﬁttingofthepublichousingstock,schools,hospitalsandother
publicly-ownedbuildings. Inaddition,publicinvestmentwillberequiredforclimateadapta-
tion,includingprotectionagainstﬂoodingandrisingsealevels. Inaddition,itwillalsohave
tosupporttheenergyconversionofthepublictransportsystem. Whilerespectingthe“pol-
Page5
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page6
luterpays”principle,publicsubsidiesandtransfersarelikelytoplayanimportantrolein
assistingdomestichouseholdsandﬁrmsinﬁnancingthecarbontransitionandsupporting
associatedresearchanddevelopmentactivities.
Furthermore,theglobalpublicgoodnatureofthecarbontransitionandclimatejusticemo-
tivationswilllikelyseeincreasingexpenditureatEuropeanandgloballevelsinﬁndingcom-
monsolutionsandassistingthemostvulnerableregionsoftheworld. Takentogether,these
differentlinesofcarbon-relatedpublicexpenditureconstituteatrendfactorthatmustbe
integratedintolong-termbudgetarystrategy.
Havingoutlinedthesector-by-sectorissues,itisalsoimportanttodevelopanintegrated
assessmentthattakesintoaccountinter-sectoralinterdependencies. Atonelevel,this
requiressufﬁcientknowledgeofintermediationchainsinproductioninordertounder-
standtheimpactofashiftinproductionorassetvaluesinonesectoronproductionorasset
valuesinothersectors. Atanotherlevel,non-trivialclimate-relatedortransition-related
shockswillhaveanimpactatanaggregatelevelandoperatethroughthestandardrange
ofmacroeconomictransmissionchannels. Accordingly,theassessmentoftheﬁnancialim-
plicationsofclimatechangealsoneedstoincludemacro-levelscenarioanalysisandstress
testing.
Inthissection,Ihaveoutlinedhowthecarbontransitionislikelytoaffecttheeconomyin
thecomingyearsanddecades. Inthenextsection,Iturntotheimplicationsfortheﬁnancial
systemand,especially,thechallengesfacingpolicymakers,ﬁnancialregulatorsandcentral
bankers.
ChallengesfortheFinancialSystemandtheMacro-FinancialPolicyFrame-
work
Inthissection,Iﬁrstbrieﬂydiscusstheimplicationsformonetarypolicybeforenextturn-
ingtoﬁnancialstabilityanalysis. Subsequently,Ioutlinetheagendafacingﬁnancialregula-
torsandsupervisors.
AsemphasisedbyCarney(2015,2018),afundamentalchallengeinaddressingclimate
changeisthe“tragedyofthehorizon”: thelong-termnatureofclimatechangemeansthatit
fallsoutsidethetypicalshort-ormedium-termplanninghorizonsofconsumers,ﬁrmsand
(forthatmatter)policyorganisations. Accordingly,itrequiresconcertedeffortandlead-
ershiptoensurethatsufﬁcientattentionispaidtoclimate-relatedrisks,whichhaveadif-
ferentfrequencyandtimedistributioncomparedtoothertypesofmacro-ﬁnancialrisks. In
particular,centralbanksandﬁnancialregulatorshaveaspecialresponsibilitytodrivemo-
mentuminaddressingclimatechange.
Inrelationtomonetarypolicy,climatechangeposesseveralchallenges. Atonelevel,an
increaseinthefrequencyandseverityofweathershocksraisesthevolatilityofinﬂation,
sectoralrelativepricelevelsandoutput. Atanotherlevel,theunderlyingpathforpoten-
tialoutputwillshiftduetothestructuralchangesassociatedwithclimatechangeandthe
Page6
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page7
carbontransition. Moreover,thevolatilityandlevelofoutputwillalsobeaffectedifcarbon
policiesdonotdeliverasmoothtransitionpathbutratherinducenon-linearadjustment
throughexcessively-acceleratedorexcessively-delayedpolicypackages. Eachofthesecon-
siderationswillaffecttheexecutionofmonetarypolicy,bothintermsofcalibrationandop-
erationalframeworks.viii Inaddition,throughitsassetpurchaseprogrammeanditscollat-
eralframework,thebalancesheetoperationsoftheEurosystemhaveasigniﬁcantimpact
onthemarketforgreenbonds.
Turningtotheriskstoﬁnancialstabilityposedbyclimatechange,onecategoryrelatesto
physicalshockssuchasasevereweathereventorthecumulativedeteriorationinthesus-
tainabilityofagivenregionasalocationforproduction.ix Anothercategoryrelatestovar-
ioustypesoftransitionrisks. Forinstance,ifthecarbontransitionisexcessivelydelayed
byinsufﬁcientpolicyaction(includinginadequateincreasesincarbontaxes),asharppol-
icyshiftwillbeultimatelyrequired. Suchasuddentransitionwouldimplyadiscretelossin
thevalueofinstalledcapitaltogetherwithanassociateddropinassetpricesandwouldbe
sufﬁcientlydisruptivetotriggerageneralrecession(ESRB2016,Vermeulenetal2018).
Otherdisruptivetransitionscenariosincludeanover-ambitiousscheduleforcarbontaxes,
whichoutpacesthecapacityoftheeconomytoswitchtolow-carbonproductiontech-
niques. Itispossibletoenvisageanexpectations-drivencontractionunderwhichhouse-
holdsandinvestorsrevisebeliefsabouttheeconomicsalienceofclimatechange,evenin
theabsenceofimmediatepolicyactions. Forinstance,asuddendropindemandforoil-
fuelledcars(inadvanceofsufﬁcientscaleintheproductionofelectriccars)couldhavea
signiﬁcantimpact,especiallyforeconomiesthatarespecialisedinthissector.
Accordingly,itisnowcommonlyacceptedthatclimatechangeconstitutesamaterialﬁnan-
cialstabilityrisk. Thiscallsforongoingmonitoringofclimaterisks,togetherwiththede-
velopmentofclimate-drivenscenarioanalysesandstresstests. Byextension,theresultsof
suchanalysesmaycallfortheappropriatemacroprudentialpoliciestomitigatetheserisks
(D’OrazioandPopoyan2018).
Theimplementationofthisagendaisnoteasy,inviewofthedataandmodellingrequire-
mentstocalculatethemappingbetweenphysicalrisksandmacro-ﬁnancialoutcomes.x
Vermeulenetal(2018)provideanimportantexamplethatconsidersarangeofclimate
stresstestsfortheDutchﬁnancialsystem,correspondingtothevariousscenariosoutlined
above. Importantly,themacroeconomicoutcomesthataretriggeredbytheclimaterisk
scenariosaregeneratedbyamulti-countrymacroeconometricmodel,sinceﬁnancialﬁrms
areexposedtoforeignrisksaswellasdomesticrisks.xi Inthisstudy,theauthorsapprox-
imatethecarbonexposuresinthebondandequityportfoliosofDutchbanks,insurance
companiesandpensionfunds(plusthecorporateloanbooksofmajorbanks)bycalculat-
ingtransitionvulnerabilityindicatorsforﬁfty-sixindustries.xii Inadditiontothesesectoral
exposures,assetvaluesarealsoaffectedbytheshiftsinrisk-freeinterestratesassociated
witheachscenario.
TheresultsshowthatDutchﬁnancialinstitutionswouldincursigniﬁcantlossesinclimate-
Page7
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page8
relatedstressscenarios. Inturn,suchlosseswouldleadtosubstantialdeclinesinthecapital
andsolvencyratiostrackedbyprudentialregulators. Accordingly,thisstudydemonstrates
thesalienceandfeasibilityofclimatestresstestingfortheﬁnancialplanningoftheﬁnancial
sectorandthesupervisorystrategiesofcentralbanksandﬁnancialregulators.
Turningtotheregulationandsupervisionofﬁrmsandmarkets,climatechangeposessev-
eralchallenges. Financialﬁrms(banks,insurancecompanies,pensionfundsandinvestment
funds)havetoworkoutthemarketrisksandcreditrisksassociatedwithclimatechange.xiii
Evenunderasmoothadjustmentpath,theconsiderablestructuralchangesassociated
withthecarbontransitionmeanthathistoricalcorrelationpatternswillnotprovideare-
liableguidetothefuturedistributionsofreturn;thispointholdsevenmoreforcefullyinthe
stressscenariosjustdiscussed.
Thisuncertaintyfeedsintore-assessmentsofoptimalallocationandriskmanagement
strategiesinthedesignofequity/bondportfoliosandloanbooks. Insurancecompaniesface
anadditionalchallengeinmodellingtheimplicationsfortheirliabilities(theriskstheyin-
sure). Itisessentialthattheﬁnancialindustrydoesagoodjobintakingonthischallengeif
theswitchtosustainableformsofeconomicactivityistobefacilitatedandtheriskstothe
householdsector(theultimateownerofﬁnancialassets)aretobeminimised. Intermsof
supervisorystrategies,regulatorswillneedtoconductenvironmental/climateriskassess-
mentsinordertoevaluatewhetherﬁrmsaremeetingtheexpectedlevelorriskmanage-
ment. Furthermore,consumersandinvestorsrequirethatconductregulatorsensurethat
climate-relatedrisksareproperlydisclosedtosaversandinvestorsthatneedtochoose
amongdifferentinvestmentplans.
Forregulatorsandsupervisors,severalstepsarerequired. First,clearexpectationsneed
tobelaidoutforregulatedﬁrms. Forinstance,thePrudentialRegulatoryAuthorityinthe
UnitedKingdomhaspublishedadraftsupervisorystatementthatsetsoutexpectations
forbanks,insurersandinvestmentsﬁrmsinrelationtomanagingtheﬁnancialrisksfrom
climatechange.xiv Therearefourdimensionstothisguidance: (i)governance;(ii)riskman-
agement;(iii)scenarioanalysis;and(iv)disclosure. JointlywiththeFinancialConductAu-
thority(FCA),itisalsoestablishingaClimateFinancialRiskForumtosupportbestpractice
inthemanagementofclimate-relatedrisksbyregulatedﬁrms.
Second,sufﬁcientinformationisrequiredifclimaterisksaretobeadequatelyassessed.
Asreﬂectedinthediscussionofclimatestresstestingabove,itisnoteasytoworkoutcli-
materisksatthemacroeconomicorindustrylevel: thedegreeofdifﬁcultyattheﬁrmlevel
isevenmoresevere,giventhevariationacrossﬁrmswithinanindustryandthecomplexity
ofsupplychains. Accordingly,ashighlightedbytheworkoftheFinancialStabilityBoard’s
TaskForceonClimate-RelatedFinancialDisclosures(TCFD),climateriskassessmentre-
quireseachﬁrm(aboveascalethreshold)tocalculateanddiscloseitscarbonexposures,on
thebasisofitsprivatecorporateinformationconcerningbothitscurrentproﬁleandfuture
plans. Inturn,attheportfoliolevel,ultimatesaversandinvestorsmustrelyontheinfor-
mationdisclosedbyintermediariesinrelationtotheenvironmental,socialandgovernance
(ESG)characteristicsoftheunderlyingsecurities.
Page8
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page9
Forsuchdisclosurestobeuseful,somedegreeofstandardisationisrequiredinorderto
ensurecomparability. Furthermore,acommontaxonomyisessentialforasharedunder-
standingoftheinformationdisclosedandthedeﬁnitionsofsustainableﬁnancialproducts
(suchasgreenbonds).xv Goingbeyondindividualsecurities,acommonapproachtothede-
velopmentofbenchmarkindicesisalsonecessary,inviewoftheimportanceofbenchmarks
inassetallocation. Accordingly,theﬁrstwaveoflegislativeproposalsarisingfromtheEuro-
peanCommission’sactionplanforsustainableﬁnancetacklesthesethreetasks: developing
regulationsforacommontaxonomy;disclosure;andbenchmarking(EuropeanCommission
2018). Whiletheinitialfocusofthedisclosureregulationisontheresponsibilitiesofinsti-
tutionalinvestorsandassetmanagerstotheircustomersintermsoffactorsintheirrisk
processes,thebroaderactionplanalsoextendstoESGtransparencyrequirementsoncom-
panies. Anopenquestioniswhetherthedevelopmentofacommontaxonomyanddisclo-
surerequirementswillsubsequentlyproveusefultoregulatorsindiscriminatingbetween
“green”and“brown”creditrisksinasystematicmanner.
TheNetworkforGreeningtheFinancialSystem(NGFS)waslaunchedattheParisOne
PlanetSummitinDecember2017andprovidesaplatformforcentralbanksandsupervi-
soryauthoritiestoshareknowledgeanddevelopcommonstrategies. Atthetechnicallevel,
itscurrentagendaconsistsof: (a)amacroﬁnancialworkstreamthatissizingthemacroeco-
nomicandsystemicrisksassociatedwithclimatechange;(b)asupervisory/microprudential
workstreamthatisreviewingdisclosurepracticesandenvironmental-relatedcreditrisks;
and(c)aworkstreamonscalingupgreenﬁnancethatisexploringhowcentralbanksand
supervisorsshouldincorporateESGfactorsintheiroperationalandmonitoringactivitiesin
supportoftheswitchtogreenﬁnance.xvi Throughsuchinitiatives,theglobalcommunityof
centralbanksandﬁnancialregulatorsisundergoingitsowntransition,withclimatechange
muchhigherontheagendacomparedtoafewyearsago.
ClimateChangeandtheCentralBankofIreland
Asthecentralbank,weplantoincorporatethecarbontransitionintoourmacroeconomic
andﬁnancialstabilityassessments. Overtime,thecarbontransitionwillbeaninﬂuential
factorinshapingmacroeconomicoutcomes. Similarly,asdiscussedintheprevioussection,
thecarbontransitioncangiverisetoﬁnancialstabilityrisks. Thisholdstrueatbothinterna-
tionalanddomesticlevels,suchthatourﬁnancialstabilityassessmentsandmacropruden-
tialpolicyframeworkswillhavetobeextendedtoincorporatecarbon-relatedsystemicrisk
factors.
Ourmacroeconomicandﬁnancialstabilityassessmentsrelyonamixofmodellingtools
andanalysisoftheempiricalevidence. Inordertoaddressclimatechange,thiswillrequire
adaptationofourmodelstoincorporatetheimpactofbothshort-termweathereventsand
long-termclimatechange. AssurveyedbyDelletal(2014)andBatten(2018),thereisan
emergingresearchliteratureonthesechallengesbutthereremainsmanyopenquestions,
togetherwiththenecessaryreﬁnementstoimplementtheseadaptationsinthespeciﬁc
contextoftheIrisheconomy.
Page9
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page10
Astheﬁnancialregulator,wehaveextensiveresponsibilitiesinguidingtheadaptationof
theﬁnancialsystem. IntermsofreformstoEUﬁnanciallegislation,theCentralBankof-
ferstechnicalsupporttotheDepartmentofFinanceinitsparticipationintheEuropean
CouncilandintransposingEUdirectivesintodomesticlaw. Withintheframeworklaidout
inprimarylegislation,wewillparticipateinthedesignofregulatoryrulesandsupervisory
frameworksatEuropeanandgloballevelsandrolloutthedomesticimplementationofnew
policiesandinitiatives. Moregenerally,giventhecommonnatureofthechallenges,wewill
collaborateandcoordinatewiththeinternationalcommunityofcentralbanksandﬁnancial
regulatoryauthoritiesinimplementingourclimatechangeworkprogramme.
Sinceourregulatorymandateisbroad,thisworkwillspanarangeofareas. Itwillinclude
therevisionstotheregulationofﬁnancialmarkets,investmentﬁrmsandtheassetman-
agementindustry,inadditiontotheassessmentofclimate-relatedprudentialrisksfacing
thebankingandinsurancesectors. Furthermore,therewillbeaparallelchallengeforour
consumerprotectionrole,giventheimplicationsforﬁnancialproductssuchasmortgages,
insurancepoliciesandinvestmentfunds.
Anaddeddimensiontothechallengewefaceisthatwehaveadualresponsibility. Inad-
ditiontoassessingdomesticclimate-relatedrisksandunderstandingthenationalcarbon
transitionpath,wearealsotheregulatorofmanyexternally-orientatedﬁrmsthatconduct
businessonapan-Europeanbasisandhaveaglobalcustomerbase. Accordingly,thebroad
geographicalscopeoftheﬁnancialﬁrmsthatweregulatemeanthatwewillhavetofactor
theconsiderablecountryvariationinclimaterisksintooursupervisorystrategies.
Inmanagingourinvestmentportfolio,ESGcriteriaaretakenintoaccount.xvii Inparticular,
theequitiescomponentofourinvestmentportfolioismanagedinlinewithESGcriteria:
compliancewiththeUN-supportedPrinciplesforResponsibleInvestment(PRI)wasacon-
ditioninallocatingthemandateforthisportfolio.xviii Inrelationtothebondcomponentof
ourinvestmentportfolio,anESGpolicyforthisassetclassiscurrentlyinpreparation. Al-
ready,theBankholdstengreenbonds(e221million)inourinvestmentportfolioandsix
greenbonds(e193million)aspartofthepublicsectorpurchaseprogrammecomponentof
theECB’squantitativeeasingmeasures.xix
Intermsofourowncarbonfootprint,theconstructionofournewheadquartersonNorth
WallQuayprovidedanopportunitytodesignabuildingthatwasenergyefﬁcient,hadlow
operatingcostswithahealthyandambientindoorenvironmentfortheoccupants.xx Under-
liningthiscommitment,theBankhassigneduptotheBusinessintheCommunityIreland
LowCarbonPledgethattargetsa50percentreductionin(scope1&2)greenhousegas
emissionsby2030.
Intermsofenergyconsumption,achallengefortheinternationalcentralbankingcommu-
nityistomakeprogressinswitching(wherepossible)fromphysicalinternationalmeetings
togreateruseofvideoconferencingandothercommunicationstechnologiesthatcutdown
ontravel.
Thissetofpolicychallengeswillbemetbyacross-organisationaleffortthatdrawsonstaff
Page10
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page11
fromacrosstheBank’sdifferentfunctionalareas. Theseinclude: economicsandstatistics;
ﬁnancialstability;ﬁnancialoperations;facilitiesmanagement;theprudentialandconduct
regulationandsupervisionofbanks,insurancecompanies,investmentfundsandﬁnancial
markets;andconsumerprotection. Bankstaffwillalsobeinvolvedintheworkofthein-
ternationalregulatorycommitteesinvolvedinpreparingtheﬁnancialregulationsystemto
addressclimatechangerisks.
Conclusions
Ourstrategicplanfor2019-2021putsforwardﬁvestrategicprioritiesfortheBank. Ad-
dressingtheimplicationsofclimatechangefortheﬁnancialsystemisessentialifweareto
makeprogressonthreeofthesepriorities: (a)resilience;(b)consumerprotection;and(c)
engagingandinﬂuencing. First,intheabsenceoftakingaction,thelong-termresilienceof
theﬁnancialsystemisthreatenedifthebalancesheetsofﬁnancialinstitutions,households
orﬁrms(and,moregenerally,macroeconomicperformance)areexcessivelyvulnerableto
climaterisks: climateresilienceisanintegralcomponenttotheoverallresilienceoftheﬁ-
nancialsystemandtheeconomy.
Second,ourconsumerprotectionframeworksmustassisthouseholdsinnavigatingtheper-
sonalﬁnancialchoicesthrownupbyclimatechange,bothinrelationtoﬁnancialportfolio
decisionsandtheﬁnancingoflow-carbonhousingandtransportation.
Third,thecomplexandmulti-dimensionalnatureofthecarbontransitionmeanthatmuch
ofwhatisrequiredcanonlybeachievedthroughengagementwithhouseholds,ﬁrms,gov-
ernmentandﬁnancialintermediaries,inordertoinﬂuencethedesignofappropriatepoli-
ciesandtheﬁnancialdecisionsofallaffectedsectors.
Forthesereasons,theBankisfullycommittedtoplayingourpartinensuringthatIreland
successfullyrespondstoclimatechangeinthecomingyears.
Acknowledgements
Preparedforthe2019MonsignorPádraigdeBrúnMemorialLectureatNUIGalway. Ithank
PhilipBrennan,DeniseDelaney,LiamMcMunn,JohnNashandPaulReddanfortheirhelp
inpreparingthisspeech. IamalsogratefultoJohnFitzgerald,SamLangﬁeld,ReaLydonand
BillyPizerforhelpfulinteractions.
Page11
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page12
References
Aldy,Joseph,AlanJ.Krupnick,RichardG.Newell,IanW.H.ParryandWilliamA.Pizer(2010),
“DesigningClimateMitigationPolicy,”JournalofEconomicLiterature48(4),903-934.
Backstrom,Hans,JenniferAnderson,LaurenceRoth,EmmanuelButin,MartinVleeschhouwer,
ErwenCrehaletandJakobThoma(2017),“LifeguardWanted: TrackingArticle2.1c&Tran-
sitionRisksinFinancialMarkets,”BrieﬁngNote,2DegreesInvestingInitiative.
Batten,Sandra(2018),“ClimateChangeandtheMacro-Economy: ACriticalReview,”Bank
ofEnglandStaffWorkingPaperNo. 706.
Battiston,Stefano,AntoineMandel,IreneMonasterolo,FranziskaSchutzeandGabriele
Visentin(2017),“AClimateStress-TestoftheFinancialSystem,”NatureClimateChange7,
283-288.
Carney,Mark(2015),“BreakingtheTragedyoftheHorizon–ClimateChangeandFinancial
Stability,”Speech,Lloyd’sofLondon(September29).
Carney,Mark(2018),“ATransitioninThinkingandAction,”Speech,InternationalClimate
RiskConferenceforSupervisors.
Coeure,Benoit(2018),“MonetaryPolicyandClimateChange,”Speech,ScalingUpGreen
Finance: TheRoleofCentralBanks.
DeBruin,KellyCandAykutMertYakut(2018),“TheEconomicandEnvironmentalImpacts
ofIncreasingtheCarbonTax,”ESRIResearchSeriesNo. 79.
Dell,Melissa,BenjaminF.JonesandBenjaminA.Olken(2014),“WhatDoWeLearnfrom
theWeather? TheNewClimate-EconomyLiterature,”JournalofEconomicLiterature52(3),
740-798.
Desmond,Margaret(2018),“NationalPreparednesstoAdapttoClimateChange: Analysis
ofStateofPlay,”EnvironmentalProtectionAgencyResearchReportNo. 256.
D’Orazio,PaolaandLilitPopoyan(2018),“FosteringGreenInvestmentsandTacklingClimate-
RelatedFinancialRisks: WhichRoleforMacroprudentialPolicies?,”LEMWorkingPaper
Series2018/35.
DirectorateGeneraloftheTreasury(withsupportfromtheBanquedeFranceandthePru-
dentialSupervisoryandResolutionAuthority)(2015),“EvaluatingClimateChangeRisks
intheBankingSector,”ReportRequiredunderArticle173VooftheEnergyTransitionand
GreenGrowthActNo. 2015-992of17August2015.
EuropeanCommission(2016),“ImpactAssessmentAccompanyingtheDocument: Pro-
posalforaDirectiveoftheEuropeanParliamentandoftheCouncilamendingDirective
2012/27/EUonEnergyEfﬁciency,”StaffWorkingDocumentNo. 405.
EuropeanCommission(2018),ActionPlan: FinancingSustainableGrowth.
Page12
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page13
EuropeanSystemicRiskBoard(2016),“TooLate,TooSudden;TransitiontoaLow-Carbon
EconomyandSystemicRisk,”AdvisoryScientiﬁcCommitteeReportNo. 6.
EUHigh-LevelExpertGrouponSustainableFinance(2018),FinancingaSustainableEuro-
peanEconomy.
Gennaioli,NicolaandAndreiShleifer(2018),ACrisisofBeliefs: InvestorPsychologyand
FinancialFragility,PrincetonUniversityPress.
Golosov,Mikhail,JohnHassler,PerKrusellandAlehTsyvinski(2014),“OptimalTaxeson
FossilFuelinGeneralEquilibrium,”Econometrica82(1),41-88.
Hebbink,Gerbert,LaurienBerkvens,MauriceBun,HenkvanKerkhoff,JuhoKoistinen,
GuidoSchottenandAdStokman(2018),“ThePriceofTransition: AnAnalysisoftheEco-
nomicImplicationsofCarbonTaxing,”DNBOccasionalStudies16-8.
Knot,Klaas(2018),“SupervisionandGreenFinance?,”Speech,InternationalClimateRisk
ConferenceforSupervisors.
McKibbin,WarwickJ.,AdeleC.Morris,PeterJ.WilcoxenandAugustusJ.Panton(2017),
“ClimateChangeandMonetaryPolicy: DealingwithDisruption,”ClimateChangeandEn-
ergyEconomicsDiscussionPaper,BrookingsInstitution.
Mersch,Yves(2018),“ClimateChangeandCentralBanking,”Speech,SustainabilityisBe-
comingMainstreamWorkshop.
Naqvi,Mona,BrendanBurke,SvenjaHector,TriciaJamisonandStanDupre(2017),All
SwansareBlackintheDark: HowtheShort-TermFocusofFinancialAnalysisDoesNot
ShedLightonLong-TermRisks,GenerationFoundationand2DegreesInvestingInitiative.
Rehn,Olli(2018),“ClimateChangeandGreenFinance,”Speech,FinnishClimateSummit.
Schoenmaker,Dirk(2018),“GreeningMonetaryPolicy,”mimeo,RotterdamSchoolofMan-
agement.
Solana,Javier(2018),“ThePoweroftheEurosystemtoPromoteEnvironmentalProtec-
tion,”UniversityofOsloFacultyofLawResearchPaperNo. 2018-23.
Schotten,G,SvanEwijk,MRegelink,D.DicouandJ.Kakes(2016),“TimeforTransition:
AnExploratoryStudyoftheTransitiontoaCarbon-NeutralEconomy,”DNBOccasional
Studies14-2.
TechnicalExpertGrouponSustainableFinance(2019),ReportonClimate-RelatedDisclo-
sures,EuropeanCommission.
Vermeulen,Robert,EdoSchets,MelanieLohuis,BarbaraKolbl,David-JanJansenandWilliam
Heeringa(2018),“AnEnergyTransitionRiskStressTestfortheFinancialSystemofthe
Netherlands,”DNBOccasionalStudies16-7.
VilleroydeGalhau,Francois(2018),“TheRoleofFinance–AnticipatingClimateRisks,Fi-
Page13
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page14
nancingTransitionOpportunities,”Speech,ClimateFinanceDay2018.
Weidmann,Jens(2017),“GreenBondIssuanceandOtherFormsofLow-CarbonFinance,”
Speech,OMFIFGlobalPublicInvestorSymposium.
WorldBank(2018),StateandTrendsofCarbonPricing2018.
Notes
i. SeealsoGennaioliandShleifer(2018)onthemodellingofbeliefsinmacro-ﬁnancialmodels.
ii. SeethewebsiteoftheClimateChangeAdvisoryCouncilforreportsontheevolutionofemissionsinIreland.
SeealsothewebsitesoftheEnvironmentalProtectionAgencyandtheSustainableNationIrelandnetwork.
iii. Theliteratureoncarbontaxesisvast. Forrecentstudies,seeDeBruinandYakut(2018)andHebbinketal
(2018)andthereferencestherein. SeealsoAldyetal(2010)andGolosovetal(2014).
iv. Theeuro-dollarrateasof1stApril2018,theconversiondateusedintheWorldBankstudy(valuesrounded
tonearestinteger). Thesectoralcoverageofthecarbontaxvariesacrosscountries: seeWorldBank(2018)
foradetailedcomparativeanalysis.
v. Ofcourse,thisisnotacleansplit,withmanytraditionalconsumershavingthepotentialtomakesomecontri-
butiontoenergyproductionthroughtheinstallationofsonarpanelsandothermechanisms.
vi. AccordingtotheCSO2018AnnualYearbook,householdsareresponsibleforaﬁfthofgreenhousegasemis-
sionsbutpay61percentofenvironmentaltaxes. Theenvironmentaltaxbillforthetypicalhouseholdamounts
to e1,771asaresultoftaxesonpetrol/diesel,carsandheatingfuels.
vii. Althoughfromalowbase,datareportedbytheSocietyoftheIrishMotorIndustry(SIMI)showthatsalesof
electriccarsinJanuary2019were811,comparedto104inJanuary2018. Intermsofmarketshare,thisisan
increasefrom0.28percentto2.5percent. See: https://www.simi.ie/en/motorstats/national-vehicle-statistics.
viii. Formoreextensivediscussionsoftheimplicationsformonetarypolicy,seeMcKibbinetal(2017),Coeure
(2018),Mersch(2018)andSolana(2018). Forexample,theﬂoodriskfromrisingsealevelsmayrendersome
coastalareasnon-viable.
ix. Forexample,theﬂoodriskfromrisingsealevelsmayrendersomecoastalareasnon-viable.
x. Onthedataandmodellingrequirementsforcomprehensivescenarioanalyses,seealsoBattistonetal(2017),
Backstrometal(2018).
xi. ThisstudyemploysNiGEM,theglobalmodelmaintainedbytheUK’sNationalInstituteforEconomicand
SocialResearch(NIESR).TheCentralBankofIrelandusesNiGEMforscenarioanalysis.
xii. Mortgageloansareoutsidethescopeofthestudy.
xiii. SeethewebsiteoftheUNEPFinanceInitiativeforsetsofprinciplesforeachpartoftheﬁnancialsector.
xiv. PrudentialRegulatoryAuthority(2018),“EnhancingBanks’andInsurers’ApproachestoManagingtheFinan-
Page14
ClimateChangeandtheIrishFinancialSystem | CentralBankofIreland | Page15
cialRisksfromClimateChange,”September2018. SeealsothegeneralclimatechangeagendaoftheBankof
England(https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/climate-change).
xv. ThetaxonomyforgreenbondscanbuildonthecurrentcriterialaidoutintheGreenBondPrinciples(GBP)
andtheClimateBondInitiative(CBI).
xvi. ThewebsiteoftheNetworkforGreeningtheFinancialSystem(NGFS)providesthedetailsofitsworkpro-
gramme.
xvii. Afurtherstepistocalculateanddisclosetheclimate-riskexposuresinthebalancesheetofthecentralplan,
asiscurrentlyplannedbytheBanquedeFrance(VilleroydeGalhau2018).
xviii. Furthermore,theportfolioalsocomplieswiththeWorldHealthOrganisation’sFrameworkConventionon
TobaccoControl,meaningthattobacco-relatedinvestmentsarescreenedoutoftheBank’sfund.
xix. AnimportantstepforwardforsustainableﬁnanceinIrelandwasthelaunchofIreland’sﬁrst-eversovereign
GreenBondbytheNTMAinOctober2018thatraised e3billion.
xx. ItistheﬁrstofﬁcebuildingofitssizeinIrelandtoachieveaBREEAMratingof‘Outstanding’andaBuilding
EnergyRatingofA2(TheBuildingResearchEstablishmentEnvironmentalAssessmentMethod(BREEAM)is
aninternationalindependentbenchmarktomeasureandverifythesustainabilitycredentialsofabuilding).
Thedesignincludesprogressiveenergysavingfeaturessuchas: (i)aCombinedHeatandPower(CHP)plant
thatgenerateselectricityasitheatsthebuilding;(ii)amixedmodeventilationsystemthatreliesonfreshair,
whenconditionspermit,toreducetheenergydemandfromairconditioning(asigniﬁcantenergyuser);(iii)
extensiveenergyandtemperaturemeteringtohelpmeasureperformanceoftheNWQbuildingandidentify
opportunitiesforimprovement;and(iv)endofjourneyfacilities,includingoverthreehundredbicyclestands,
designedtopromotetheyear-rounduseofcycling,runningandwalkingassustainabletransportoptions.
TheBankoperatesanenergymanagementsystemateachofitssites,totheISO50001internationalenergy
performancestandard. AligningthewaythattheBankoperateswiththeenvironmentalfeaturesinthephys-
icaldesignofthenewheadquartersbuildingembedsanddrivesoursustainabilityperformance. Through
ongoingstakeholderengagement,theBankcontinuestoidentifynewopportunitiesforimprovementand
implementnewprocedurestooptimisetheperformanceofthefacilitiesandourenergyefﬁciency. Bypro-
motingthesesustainablepracticesinternallyandexternally,theBankisafﬁrmingitscommitmenttoreducing
itsoverallimpactonthelocalandglobalenvironments.
Theresultsarealreadyevident: a20percentreductioninenergyconsumptionatourcurrencycentresince
March2017. Thisisequivalenttoover1.4millionkilowatthours,402tonnesofcarbondioxideorasavingin
excessof e97,000. In2018,wereducedelectricityconsumptionattheNorthWallQuaybuildingbytwenty-
ﬁvepercentcomparedwith2017,equivalenttoalmostonemillionkilowatthours,520tonnesofcarbondiox-
ideoranannualsavinginexcessof e119,000. (SincetheNWQbuildingwascommissionedin2017,itwould
notbeconsideredabaselinefor“normal”operations. TheCO2conversionfactorsaredifferentforgasand
electricity,hencethevaryingresultsfromthedifferentratiosofresourceuseatthetwosites.)
Page15
